---
layout: page
title: Non-profit corporate bylaws
---

## ARTICLE I - NAME

### 1.01 Name

The name of this corporation shall be Mondial Association for Tools Handling
MathML, Ltd. The business of the corporation may be conducted as Mondial
Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. or The MathML Association.

## ARTICLE II - PURPOSES AND POWERS

### 2.01 Purpose

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. is a non-profit corporation
and shall be operated exclusively for educational and charitable purposes
within the meaning of Section 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
or the corresponding section of any future Federal tax code.

The goals of Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd are:

(a) Native implementation of the MathML language in all Web rendering engines.
(b) Development of software tools to let users read, write, search, store and
   transfer MathML formulas; with particular attention to make them accessible
    to people with disabilities.
(c) Usage of the MathML language to publish educational, technical and
    scientific content in Web sites, ebooks or Web apps.

<!--
Transcontinental Humanitarian Corporation's purpose is to address, educate,
coordinate, and provide aid and relief to eradicate chronic malnutrition and
hunger on a local and global level.

We provide education by giving free lectures and slideshows titled “The World
Hunger Exhibition,” in schools, libraries, and other public venues as well as
utilizing social media channels and the corporation's website to provide facts,
statistics, and other related data on causes, current efforts and solutions to
eradicating chronic malnutrition and hunger.

Our programs include sending out ambassadors to raise social consciousness
about the cause on a local and global level, and to hold fundraising events in
order to provide immediate relief and assistance to those suffering from
chronic malnutrition and hunger regardless of their race, ethnicity, or
religion.

To maximize our impact on current efforts, we may seek to collaborate with
other non-profit organizations which fall under the 501(c) (3) section of the
internal revenue code and are operated exclusively for educational and
charitable purposes.

At times, per the discretion of the board of directors, we may provide
internships or volunteer opportunities which shall provide opportunities for
involvement in said activities and programs in order to have a greater impact
for change.
-->

### 2.02 Powers

The corporation shall have the power, directly or indirectly, alone or in
conjunction or cooperation with others, to do any and all lawful acts which may
be necessary or convenient to affect the charitable purposes, for which the
corporation is organized, and to aid or assist other organizations or persons
whose activities further accomplish, foster, or attain such purposes. The
powers of the corporation may include, but not be limited to, the acceptance of
contributions from the public and private sectors, whether financial or in-kind
contributions.

### 2.03 Nonprofit Status and Exempt Activities Limitation.

(a) **Nonprofit Legal Status.** Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML,
    Ltd. is a charitable organization under the Not-for-Profit Corporation Law
    of the State of New York, recognized as tax exempt under Section 501(c)(3)
    of the United States Internal Revenue Code.

(b) **Exempt Activities Limitation.** Not withstanding any other provision of
    these Bylaws, no director, officer, employee, member, or representative of
    this corporation shall take any action or carry on any activity by or on
    behalf of the corporation not permitted to be taken or carried on by an
    organization exempt under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code as
    it now exists or may be amended, or by any organization contributions to
    which are deductible under Section 170(c)(2) of such Code and Regulations
    as it now exists or may be amended. No part of the net earnings of the
    corporation shall inure to the benefit or be distributable to any director,
    officer, member, or other private person, except that the corporation shall
    be authorized and empowered to pay reasonable compensation for services
    rendered and to make payments and distributions in furtherance of the
    purposes set forth in the Articles of Incorporation and these Bylaws.

(c) **Distribution Upon Dissolution.** Upon termination or dissolution of the
    Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd., any assets lawfully
    available for distribution shall be distributed to one (1) or more
    qualifying organizations described in Section 501(c)(3) of the 1986
    Internal Revenue Code (or described in any corresponding provision of any
    successor statute) which organization or organizations have a charitable
    purpose which, at least generally, includes a purpose similar to the
    terminating or dissolving corporation.

    The organization to receive the assets of the Mondial Association for Tools
    Handling MathML, Ltd. hereunder shall be selected in the discretion of a
    majority of the managing body of the corporation, and if its members cannot
    so agree, then the recipient organization shall be selected pursuant to a
    verified petition in equity filed in a court of proper jurisdiction against
    the Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd., by one (1) or more
    of its managing body which verified petition shall contain such statements
    as reasonably indicate the applicability of this section. The court upon a
    finding that this section is applicable shall select the qualifying
    organization or organizations to receive the assets to be distributed,
    giving preference if practicable to organizations located within the State
    of New York.

    In the event that the court shall find that this section is applicable but
    that there is no qualifying organization known to it which has a charitable
    purpose, which, at least generally, includes a purpose similar to the
    Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd., then the court shall
    direct the distribution of its assets lawfully available for distribution
    to the Treasurer of the State of New York to be added to the general fund.

## ARTICLE III - MEMBERSHIP

### 3.01 No Membership Classes

The corporation shall have no members who have any right to vote or title or
interest in or to the corporation, its properties and franchises.

### 3.02 Non-Voting Affiliates

The board of directors may approve classes of non-voting affiliates with rights,
privileges, and obligations established by the board. Affiliates may be
individuals, businesses, and other organizations that seek to support the
mission of the corporation. The board, a designated committee of the board, or
any duly elected officer in accordance with board policy, shall have authority
to admit any individual or organization as an affiliate, to recognize
representatives of affiliates, and to make determinations as to affiliates'
rights, privileges, and obligations. At no time shall affiliate information be
shared with or sold to other organizations or groups without the affiliate's
consent. At the discretion of the board of directors, affiliates may be given
endorsement, recognition and media coverage at fundraising activities,
other events or at the corporation website. Affiliates have no voting rights,
and are not members of the corporation.

### 3.03 Dues

Any dues for affiliates shall be determined by the board of directors.

## ARTICLE IV - BOARD OF DIRECTORS

### 4.01 Number of Directors

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall have a board of
directors consisting of at least 4 and no more than 15 directors. Within these
limits, the board may increase or decrease the number of directors serving on
the board, including for the purpose of staggering the terms of directors.

### 4.02 Powers

All corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of the board
and the affairs of the Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd.
Shall be managed under the direction of the board, except as otherwise provided
by law.

### 4.03 Terms

(a) All directors shall be elected to serve a two-year term, however the term
    may be extended until a successor has been elected.

(b) Director terms shall be staggered so that approximately half the number of
    directors will end their terms in any given year.

(c) Directors may serve terms in succession.

(d) The term of office shall be considered to begin January 1 and end December
    31 of the second year in office, unless the term is extended until such
    time as a successor has been elected.

### 4.04 Qualifications and Election of Directors

In order to be eligible to serve as a director on the board of directors, the
individual must be 18 years of age. Directors may be elected at
any board meeting by the majority vote of the existing board of directors. The
election of directors to replace those who have fulfilled their term of office
shall take place in January of each year.

### 4.05 Vacancies

The board of directors may fill vacancies due to the expiration of a director's
term of office, resignation, death, or removal of a director or may appoint new
directors to fill a previously unfilled board position, subject to the maximum
number of directors under these Bylaws.

(a) **Unexpected Vacancies.** Vacancies in the board of directors due to
    resignation, death, or removal shall be filled by the board for the balance
    of the term of the director being replaced.

### 4.06 Removal of Directors

A director may be removed by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board of directors
then in office, if:

(a) the director is absent and unexcused from two or more meetings of the board
    of directors in a twelve month period. The board president is empowered to
    excuse directors from attendance for a reason deemed adequate by the board
    president. The president shall not have the power to excuse him/herself
    from the board meeting attendance and in that case, the board vice president
    shall excuse the president. Or:

(b) for cause or no cause, if before any meeting of the board at which a vote
    on removal will be made the director in question is given electronic or
    written notification of the board's intention to discuss her/his case and
    is given the opportunity to be heard at a meeting of the board.

### 4.07 Board of Directors Meetings.

(a) Regular Meetings. The board of directors shall have a minimum of four (4)
    regular meetings each calendar year at times and places fixed by the board.
    Board meetings shall be held upon four (4) days notice by first-class mail,
    electronic mail, or facsimile transmission or forty-eight (48) hours notice
    delivered personally or by telephone. If sent by mail, facsimile
    transmission, or electronic mail, the notice shall be deemed to be
    delivered upon its deposit in the mail or transmission system. Notice of
    meetings shall specify the place, day, and hour of meeting. The purpose of
    the meeting need not be specified.

(b) Special Meetings. Special meetings of the board may be called by the
    president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, or any two (2) other
    directors of the board of directors. A special meeting must be preceded by
    at least 2 days notice to each director of the date, time, and place, but
    not the purpose, of the meeting.

(c) Waiver of Notice. Any director may waive notice of any meeting, in
    accordance with New York law.

### 4.08 Manner of Acting.

(a) Quorum. A majority of the directors in office immediately before a meeting
    shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at that meeting
    of the board. No business shall be considered by the board at any meeting
    at which a quorum is not present.

(b) Majority Vote. Except as otherwise required by law or by the articles of
    incorporation, the act of the majority of the directors present at a
    meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the board.

(c) Hung Board Decisions. On the occasion that directors of the board are
    unable to make a decision based on a tied number of votes, the president or
    treasurer in the order of presence shall have the power to swing the vote
    based on his/her discretion.

(d) Participation. Except as required otherwise by law, the Articles of
    Incorporation, or these Bylaws, directors may participate in a regular or
    special meeting through the use of any means of communication by which all
    directors participating may simultaneously communicate with each other
    during the meeting, including in person, internet video meeting or by
    telephonic conference call.

### 4.09 Compensation for Board Service

Directors shall receive no compensation for carrying out their duties as
directors. The board may adopt policies providing for reasonable reimbursement
of directors for expenses incurred in conjunction with carrying out board
responsibilities, such as travel expenses to attend board meetings.

### 4.10 Compensation for Professional Services by Directors

Directors are not restricted from being remunerated for professional services
provided to the corporation. Such remuneration shall be reasonable and fair to
the corporation and must be reviewed and approved in accordance with the board
Conflict of Interest policy and state law.

## ARTICLE V - COMMITTEES

### 5.01 Committees

The board of directors may, by the resolution adopted by a majority of the
directors then in office, designate one or more committees, each consisting of
two or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the board. Any committee, to
the extent provided in the resolution of the board, shall have all the
authority of the board, except that no committee, regardless of board
resolution, may:

(a) take any final action on matters which also requires board members'
    approval or approval of a majority of all members;

(b) fill vacancies on the board of directors of in any committee which has the
    authority of the board;

(c) amend or repeal Bylaws or adopt new Bylaws;

(d) amend or repeal any resolution of the board of directors which by its
    express terms is not so amendable or repealable;

(e) appoint any other committees of the board of directors or the members of
    these committees;

(f) expend corporate funds to support a nominee for director; or

(g) approve any transaction;

    (i) to which the corporation is a party and one or more directors have a
        material financial interest; or

    (ii) between the corporation and one or more of its directors or between
    the corporation or any person in which one or more of its directors have a
    material financial interest.

### 5.2 Meetings and Action of Committees

Meetings and action of the committees shall be governed by and held and taken
in accordance with, the provisions of Article IV of these Bylaws concerning
meetings of the directors, with such changes in the context of those Bylaws as
are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of
directors and its members, except that the time for regular meetings of
committees may be determined either by resolution of the board of directors or
by resolution of the committee. Special meetings of the committee may also be
called by resolution of the board of directors. Notice of special meetings of
committees shall also be given to any and all alternate members, who shall have
the right to attend all meetings of the committee. Minutes shall be kept of
each meeting of any committee and shall be filed with the corporate records.
The board of directors may adopt rules for the governing of the committee not
inconsistent with the provision of these Bylaws.

### 5.3 Informal Action By The Board of Directors

Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors at a
meeting may be taken without a meeting if consent in writing, setting forth the
action so taken, shall be agreed by the consensus of a quorum. For purposes of
this section an e-mail transmission from an e-mail address on record
constitutes a valid writing. The intent of this provision is to allow the board
of directors to use email to approve actions, as long as a quorum of board
members gives consent.

## ARTICLE VI - OFFICERS

### 6.01 Board Officers

The officers of the corporation shall be a board president, vice-president,
secretary, and treasurer, all of whom shall be chosen by, and serve at the
pleasure of, the board of directors. Each board officer shall have the
authority and shall perform the duties set forth in these Bylaws or by
resolution of the board or by direction of an officer authorized by the board
to prescribe the duties and authority of other officers. The board may also
appoint additional vice-presidents and such other officers as it deems
expedient for the proper conduct of the business of the corporation, each of
whom shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as the board of
directors may determine. One person may hold two or more board offices, but no
board officer may act in more than one capacity where action of two or more
officers is required.

### 6.02 Term of Office

Each officer shall serve a one-year term of office and may not serve more than
three (3) consecutive terms of office. Unless unanimously elected by the board
at the end of his/her three (3) year terms or to fill a vacancy in an officer
position, each board officer's term of office shall begin upon the adjournment
of the board meeting at which elected and shall end upon the adjournment of the
board meeting during which a successor is elected.

### 6.03 Removal and Resignation

The board of directors may remove an officer at any time, with or without
cause. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the
corporation without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under
any contract to which the officer is a party. Any resignation shall take effect
at the date of the receipt of the notice or at any later time specified in the
notice, unless otherwise specified in the notice. The acceptance of the
resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.

### 6.04 Board President

The board president shall be the chief volunteer officer of the corporation.
The board president shall lead the board of directors in performing its duties
and responsibilities, including, if present, presiding at all meetings of the
board of directors, and shall perform all other duties incident to the office
or properly required by the board of directors.

### 6.05 Vice President

In the absence or disability of the board president, the ranking vice-president
or vice-president designated by the board of directors shall perform the duties
of the board president. When so acting, the vice-president shall have all the
powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the board president. The
vice-president shall have such other powers and perform such other duties
prescribed for them by the board of directors or the board president. The
vice-president shall normally accede to the office of board president upon the
completion of the board president's term of office.

### 6.06 Secretary

The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept a book of minutes of all meetings
and actions of directors and committees of directors. The minutes of each
meeting shall state the time and place that it was held and such other
information as shall be necessary to determine the actions taken and whether
the meeting was held in accordance with the law and these Bylaws. The secretary
shall cause notice to be given of all meetings of directors and committees as
required by the Bylaws. The secretary shall have such other powers and perform
such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or the board
president. The secretary may appoint, with approval of the board, a director
to assist in performance of all or part of the duties of the secretary.

### 6.07 Treasurer

The treasurer shall be the lead director for oversight of the financial
condition and affairs of the corporation. The treasurer shall oversee and keep
the board informed of the financial condition of the corporation and of audit
or financial review results. In conjunction with other directors or officers,
the treasurer shall oversee budget preparation and shall ensure that
appropriate financial reports, including an account of major transactions and
the financial condition of the corporation, are made available to the board of
directors on a timely basis or as may be required by the board of directors.
The treasurer shall perform all duties properly required by the board of
directors or the board president. The treasurer may appoint, with approval of
the board a qualified fiscal agent or member of the staff to assist in
performance of all or part of the duties of the treasurer.

### 6.08 Non-Director Officers

The board of directors may designate additional officer positions of the
corporation and may appoint and assign duties to other non-director officers of
the corporation.

## ARTICLE VII - CONTRACTS, CHECKS, LOANS, INDEMNIFICATION AND RELATED MATTERS

### 7.01 Contracts and other Writings

Except as otherwise provided by resolution of the board or board policy, all
contracts, deeds, leases, mortgages, grants, and other agreements of the
corporation shall be executed on its behalf by the treasurer or other persons
to whom the corporation has delegated authority to execute such documents in
accordance with policies approved by the board.

### 7.02 Checks, Drafts

All checks, drafts, or other orders for payment of money, notes, or other
evidence of indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation, shall be signed
by such officer or officers, agent or agents, of the corporation and in such
manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the board.

### 7.03 Deposits

All funds of the corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from
time to time to the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies,
or other depository as the board or a designated committee of the board may
select.

### 7.04 Loans

No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the corporation and no evidence of
indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by resolution of the
board. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.

### 7.05 Indemnification

(a) Mandatory Indemnification. The corporation shall indemnify a director or
    former director, who was wholly successful, on the merits or otherwise, in
    the defense of any proceeding to which he or she was a party because he or
    she is or was a director of the corporation against reasonable expenses
    incurred by him or her in connection with the proceedings.

(b) Permissible Indemnification. The corporation shall indemnify a director or
    former director made a party to a proceeding because he or she is or was a
    director of the corporation, against liability incurred in the proceeding,
    if the determination to indemnify him or her has been made in the manner
    prescribed by the law and payment has been authorized in the manner
    prescribed by law.

(c) Advance for Expenses. Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal
    action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the corporation in advance of the
    final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, as authorized by the
    board of directors in the specific case, upon receipt of (I) a written
    affirmation from the director, officer, employee or agent of his or her
    good faith belief that he or she is entitled to indemnification as
    authorized in this article, and (II) an undertaking by or on behalf of the
    director, officer, employee or agent to repay such amount, unless it shall
    ultimately be determined that he or she is entitled to be indemnified by
    the corporation in these Bylaws.

(d) Indemnification of Officers, Agents and Employees. An officer of the
    corporation who is not a director is entitled to mandatory indemnification
    under this article to the same extent as a director. The corporation may
    also indemnify and advance expenses to an employee or agent of the
    corporation who is not a director, consistent with New York Law and public
    policy, provided that such indemnification, and the scope of such
    indemnification, is set forth by the general or specific action of the
    board or by contract.

## ARTICLE VIII - MISCELLANEOUS

### 8.01 Books and Records

The corporation shall keep correct and complete books and records of account
and shall keep minutes of the proceedings of all meetings of its board of
directors, a record of all actions taken by board of directors without a
meeting, and a record of all actions taken by committees of the board. In
addition, the corporation shall keep a copy of the corporation's Articles of
Incorporation and Bylaws as amended to date.

### 8.02 Fiscal Year

The fiscal year of the corporation shall be from January 1 to December 31 of
each year.

### 8.03 Conflict of Interest

The board shall adopt and periodically review a conflict of interest policy to
protect the corporation's interest when it is contemplating any transaction or
arrangement which may benefit any director, officer, employee, affiliate, or
member of a committee with board-delegated powers.

### 8.04 Nondiscrimination Policy

The officers, directors, committee members, employees, and persons served by
this corporation shall be selected entirely on a nondiscriminatory basis with
respect to age, sex, race, religion, national origin, and sexual orientation.
It is the policy of Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. not to
discriminate on the basis of race, creed, ancestry, marital status, gender,
sexual orientation, age, physical disability, veteran's status, political
service or affiliation, color, religion, or national origin.

### 8.05 Bylaw Amendment

These Bylaws may be amended, altered, repealed, or restated by a vote of the
majority of the board of directors then in office at a meeting of the Board,
provided, however,

(a) that no amendment shall be made to these Bylaws which would cause the
    corporation to cease to qualify as an exempt corporation under
    Section 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the
    corresponding section of any future Federal tax code; and,

(b) that an amendment does not affect the voting rights of directors. An
    amendment that does affect the voting rights of directors further requires
    ratification by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of a quorum of directors at a Board
    meeting.

(c) that all amendments be consistent with the Articles of Incorporation.

## ARTICLE IX - COUNTERTERRORISM AND DUE DILIGENCE POLICY

In furtherance of its exemption by contributions to other organizations,
domestic or foreign, Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall
stipulate how the funds will be used and shall require the recipient to provide
the corporation with detailed records and financial proof of how the funds were
utilized.

Although adherence and compliance with the US Department of the Treasury's
publication the "Voluntary Best Practice for US. Based Charities" is not
mandatory, Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. willfully and
voluntarily recognizes and puts to practice these guidelines and suggestions
to reduce, develop, re-evaluate and strengthen a risk-based approach to guard
against the threat of diversion of charitable funds or exploitation of
charitable activity by terrorist organizations and their support networks.

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall also comply and put
into practice the federal guidelines, suggestion, laws and limitation set forth
by pre-existing U.S. legal requirements related to combating terrorist
financing, which include, but are not limited to, various sanctions programs
administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) in regard to its
foreign activities.

## ARTICLE X - DOCUMENT RETENTION POLICY

### 10.01 Purpose

The purpose of this document retention policy is establishing standards for
document integrity, retention, and destruction and to promote the proper
treatment of Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. records.

### 10.02 Policy

#### Section 1. General Guidelines.

Records should not be kept if they are no longer needed for the operation of
the business or required by law. Unnecessary records should be eliminated from
the files. The cost of maintaining records is an expense which can grow
unreasonably if good housekeeping is not performed. A mass of records also
makes it more difficult to find pertinent records.

From time to time, Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. may
establish retention or destruction policies or schedules for specific
categories of records in order to ensure legal compliance, and also to
accomplish other objectives, such as preserving intellectual property and cost
management. Several categories of documents that warrant special consideration
are identified below. While minimum retention periods are established, the
retention of the documents identified below and of documents not included in
the identified categories should be determined primarily by the application of
the general guidelines affecting document retention, as well as the exception
for litigation relevant documents and any other pertinent factors.

#### Section 2. Exception for Litigation Relevant Documents.
Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. expects all officers,
directors, and employees to comply fully with any published records retention
or destruction policies and schedules, provided that all officers, directors,
and employees should note the following general exception to any stated
destruction schedule: If you believe, or the Mondial Association for Tools
Handling MathML, Ltd. informs you, that corporate records are relevant to
litigation, or potential litigation (i.e. a dispute that could result in
litigation), then you must preserve those records until it is determined that
the records are no longer needed. That exception supersedes any previously or
subsequently established destruction schedule for those records.

#### Section 3. Minimum Retention Periods for Specific Categories

(a) Corporate Documents. Corporate records include the corporation's Articles
    of Incorporation, By-Laws and IRS Form 1023 and Application for Exemption.
    Corporate records should be retained permanently. IRS regulations require
    that the Form 1023 be available for public inspection upon request.

(b) Tax Records. Tax records include, but may not be limited to, documents
    concerning payroll, expenses, proof of contributions made by donors,
    accounting procedures, and other documents concerning the corporation's
    revenues. Tax records should be retained for at least seven years from the
    date of filing the applicable return.

(c) Employment Records/Personnel Records. State and federal statutes require
    the corporation to keep certain recruitment, employment and personnel
    information. The corporation should also keep personnel files that reflect
    performance reviews and any complaints brought against the corporation or
    individual employees under applicable state and federal statutes. The
    corporation should also keep in the employee's personnel file all final
    memoranda and correspondence reflecting performance reviews and actions
    taken by or against personnel. Employment applications should be retained
    for three years. Retirement and pension records should be kept permanently.
    Other employment and personnel records should be retained for seven years.

(d) Board and Board Committee Materials. Meeting minutes should be retained in
    perpetuity in the corporation's minute book. A clean copy of all other
    Board and Board Committee materials should be kept for no less than three
    years by the corporation.

(e) Press Releases/Public Filings. The corporation should retain permanent
    copies of all press releases and publicly filed documents under the theory
    that the corporation should have its own copy to test the accuracy of any
    document a member of the public can theoretically produce against the
    corporation.

(f) Legal Files. Legal counsel should be consulted to determine the retention
    period of particular documents, but legal documents should generally be
    maintained for a period of ten years.

(g) Marketing and Sales Documents. The corporation should keep final copies of
    marketing and sales documents for the same period of time it keeps other
    corporate files, generally three years. An exception to the three-year
    policy may be sales invoices, contracts, leases, licenses, and other legal
    documentation. These documents should be kept for at least three years
    beyond the life of the agreement.

(h) Development/Intellectual Property and Trade Secrets. Development documents
    are often subject to intellectual property protection in their final form
    (e.g., patents and copyrights). The documents detailing the development
    process are often also of value to the corporation and are protected as a
    trade secret where the corporation:

    (i) derives independent economic value from the secrecy of the information;
    and
    (ii) has taken affirmative steps to keep the information confidential.

    The corporation should keep all documents designated as containing trade secret information for at least the life of the trade secret.

(i) Contracts. Final, execution copies of all contracts entered into by the
    corporation should be retained. The corporation should retain copies of the
    final contracts for at least three years beyond the life of the agreement,
    and longer in the case of publicly filed contracts.

(j) Correspondence. Unless correspondence falls under another category listed
    elsewhere in this policy, correspondence should generally be saved for two
    years.

(k) Banking and Accounting. Accounts payable ledgers and schedules should be
    kept for seven years. Bank reconciliations, bank statements, deposit slips
    and checks (unless for important payments and purchases) should be kept for
    three years. Any inventories of products, materials, and supplies and any
    invoices should be kept for seven years.

(l) Insurance. Expired insurance policies, insurance records, accident reports,
    claims, etc. should be kept permanently.

(m) Audit Records. External audit reports should be kept permanently. Internal
    audit reports should be kept for three years.

#### Section 4. Electronic Mail.

E-mail that needs to be saved should be either:

(i) printed in hard copy and kept in the appropriate file; or

(ii) downloaded to a computer file and kept electronically or on disk as a
separate file. The retention period depends upon the subject matter of the
e-mail, as covered elsewhere in this policy.

## ARTICLE XI - Transparency and Accountability, Disclosure of Financial Information With The General Public

### 11.01 Purpose

By making full and accurate information about its mission, activities, finances,
and governance publicly available, Mondial Association for Tools Handling
MathML, Ltd. practices and encourages transparency and accountability to the
general public. This policy will:

(a) indicate which documents and materials produced by the corporation are
    presumptively open to staff and/or the public

(b) indicate which documents and materials produced by the corporation are
    presumptively closed to staff and/or the public

(c) specify the procedures whereby the open/closed status of documents and
    materials can be altered.

The details of this policy are as follow:

### 11.02 Financial and IRS documents (The form 1023 and the form 990)

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall provide its Internal
Revenue forms 990, 990-T, 1023 and 5227, bylaws, conflict of interest policy,
and financial statements to the general public for inspection free of charge.

### 11.03 Means and Conditions of Disclosure

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall make
"Widely Available" the aforementioned documents on its internet website:
www.mathml-association.org to be viewed and inspected by the general public.

(a) The documents shall be posted in a format that allows an individual using
    the Internet to access, download, view and print them in a manner that
    exactly reproduces the image of the original document filed with the IRS
    (except information exempt from public disclosure requirements, such as
    contributor lists).

(b) The website shall clearly inform readers that the document is available and
    provide instructions for downloading it.

(c) Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall not charge a fee
    for downloading the information. Documents shall not be posted in a format
    that would require special computer hardware or software (other than
    software readily available to the public free of charge).

(d) Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall inform anyone
    requesting the information where this information can be found, including
    the web address. This information must be provided immediately for
    in-person requests and within 7 days for mailed requests.

### 11.04 IRS Annual Information Returns (Form 990)

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall submit the Form 990
to its board of directors prior to the filing of the Form 990. While neither
the approval of the Form 990 or a review of the 990 is required under Federal
law, the corporation's Form 990 shall be submitted to each member of the board
of director's via (hard copy or email) at least 10 days before the Form 990 is
filed with the IRS.

### 11.05 Board

(a) All board deliberations shall be open to the public except where the board
    passes a motion to make any specific portion confidential.

(b) All board minutes shall be open to the public one week after the meeting,
    except where the board passes a motion to make any specific portion
    confidential.

(c) All papers and materials considered by the board shall be open to the
    public following the meeting at which they are considered, except where the
    board passes a motion to make any specific paper or material confidential.

(d) Attendance to all board meetings shall be opened to the public, except
    where the board passes a motion to make any board meeting confidential.

### 11.06 Staff Records

(a) All staff records shall be available for consultation by the staff member
    concerned or by their legal representatives.

(b) No staff records shall be made available to any person outside the
    corporation except the authorized governmental agencies.

(c) Within the corporation, staff records shall be made available only to those
    persons with managerial or personnel responsibilities for that staff member,
    except that

(d) Staff records shall be made available to the board when requested.

### 11.07 Donor Records

(a) All donor records shall be available for consultation by the members and
    donors concerned or by their legal representatives.

(b) No donor records shall be made available to any other person outside the
    corporation except the authorized governmental agencies.

(c) Within the corporation, donor records shall be made available only to those
    persons with managerial or personnel responsibilities for dealing with
    those donors, except that ;

(d) donor records shall be made available to the board when requested.

## ARTICLE XII - CODES OF ETHICS AND WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY

### 12.01 Purpose

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. requires and encourages
directors, officers and employees to observe and practice high standards of
business and personal ethics in the conduct of their duties and
responsibilities. The employees and representatives of the corporation must
practice honesty and integrity in fulfilling their responsibilities and comply
with all applicable laws and regulations. It is the intent of Mondial
Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. to adhere to all laws and
regulations that apply to the corporation and the underlying purpose of this
policy is to support the corporation's goal of legal compliance. The support of
all corporate staff is necessary to achieving compliance with various laws and
regulations.

### 12.02 Reporting Violations

If any director, officer, staff or employee reasonably believes that some
policy, practice, or activity of Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML,
Ltd. is in violation of law, a written complaint must be filed by that person
with the vice president or the board president.

### 12.03 Acting in Good Faith

Anyone filing a complaint concerning a violation or suspected violation of the
Code must be acting in good faith and have reasonable grounds for believing the
information disclosed indicates a violation of the Code. Any allegations that
prove not to be substantiated and which prove to have been made maliciously or
knowingly to be false shall be viewed as a serious disciplinary offense.

### 12.04 Retaliation

Said person is protected from retaliation only if she/he brings the alleged
unlawful activity, policy, or practice to the attention of Mondial Association
for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. and provides the Mondial Association for Tools
Handling MathML, Ltd. with a reasonable opportunity to investigate and correct
the alleged unlawful activity. The protection described below is only available
to individuals that comply with this requirement.

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall not retaliate against
any director, officer, staff or employee who in good faith, has made a protest
or raised a complaint against some practice of Mondial Association for Tools
Handling MathML, Ltd. or of another individual or entity with whom Mondial
Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. has a business relationship, on the
basis of a reasonable belief that the practice is in violation of law, or a
clear mandate of public policy.

Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. shall not retaliate against
any director, officer, staff or employee who disclose or threaten to disclose
to a supervisor or a public body, any activity, policy, or practice of Mondial
Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd. that the individual reasonably
believes is in violation of a law, or a rule, or regulation mandated pursuant
to law or is in violation of a clear mandate of public policy concerning the
health, safety, welfare, or protection of the environment.

### 12.05 Confidentiality

Violations or suspected violations may be submitted on a confidential basis by
the complainant or may be submitted anonymously. Reports of violations or
suspected violations shall be kept confidential to the extent possible,
consistent with the need to conduct an adequate investigation.

### 12.06 Handling of Reported Violations

The board president or vice president shall notify the sender and acknowledge
receipt of the reported violation or suspected violation within five business
days. All reports shall be promptly investigated by the board and its appointed
committee and appropriate corrective action shall be taken if warranted by the
investigation.

This policy shall be made available to all directors, officers, staffs or
employees and they shall have the opportunity to ask questions about the policy.

## ARTICLE XIII - AMENDMENT OF Articles of Incorporation

### 13.01 Amendment

Any amendment to the Articles of Incorporation may be adopted by approval of
two-thirds (2/3) of the board of directors.
