---
layout: page
title: Board Meeting 2015-11-30
---

Attendees:

-   Deyan Ginev,
-   Frédéric Wang,
-   Michael Kohlhase,
-   Moritz Schubotz,
-   Raniere Silva,

Session Chair: Frédéric.

Minutes Scribe: Deyan.

Venue: Mumble

## Minutes

1. Discuss progress on Form 1023 EZ, bank account, donations
  - Deyan made contact with Aaron Krowne, will receive legal opinion soon
  - Deyan's details got postponed until mid-December 2015, so we'll wait for then before acting

2. Discuss progress on affiliates. Vote for https://github.com/MathML/website/pull/43
  - 5 in favour, unanimously accepted
  
  - Association Friends discussion
    - Michael asks we are more proactive in recruiting a larger number of friends
    - Moritz suggests adding a web form
    - General agreement that we should move forward with sending announcement emails to mailing lists for MathML Association, to not waste attention
    - Michael will contact the W3C working group
    - Deyan will prepare an announcement email that has a link to the Friends page.

  - Project ideas
    - Come up with a first association-backed project to fund-raise for. The association will give an official "thumbs up" endorsement, but won't hold the actual funds. Moritz points out that specific projects are easier to fund, as opposed to a general "anything mathml" fund.
    - Frédéric: Math fonts project
    - Moritz: WikiMedia Math project (mutliple possible funding sources), RESTbase? umbrella project for renderers
    - Deyan: We should maintain a list of active MathML-related projects on our site.
    - We should have at least one "donation opportunity" on the association web page.

3. Vote: Re-elect Moritz, Deyan and Frédéric as board members for the following term
  - Michael and Raniere have unanimously approved
  - Details to be sorted out on github

4. Discuss work to do for the end of the year: accounting, relections, Annual Activity Report
  - Raniere asks for deyan to forward the end-of-the-year financial forms
  - Michael will add a first draft of the Annual Activity Report

  - Vote: Board office positions for 2016, all current board members agree to maintain their positions.
     - +5 unanimously approved
  - Domain renewals are done for 2016, mathml.org still taken, but mathml3.org is available

5. Web Engine Hackfest http://www.webengineshackfest.org/
  - Frédéric will help Igalia with WebKit MathML support, maybe recruite MathML friends
  - We'll feature it as a MathML Association account
  - Frédéric will post a short presentation for feedback from the directors

6. Misc
  - Frédéric: Fork of webkit mathml work under the MathML association to increase visibility?
  - Next meeting in early January, Raniere will make a doodle for exact date and time
