---
layout: page
title: Board Meeting 2015-20-05
---

# MATHML Association: Founding meeting

Attendees:

-   Deyan Ginev,
-   Frédéric Wang,
-   Michael Kohlhase,
-   Moritz Schubotz.

Session Chair: Frederic Wang.

## Minutes
0. Only the founding directors are eligible to vote for this meeting: Deyan, Frederic and Moritz
1. Vote on approving the [By-laws policy](/legal-documents/non-profit-corporate-by-laws.html): 3 votes "yes", 0 votes "no"

  ```
   Proposal is accepted. 
  ```
2. Vote on approving the [Conflicts of interest](/legal-documents/conflict-of-interest-policy.html) policy: 3 votes "yes", 0 votes "no"
  ```
   Proposal is accepted. 
  ```

  ```
   By-laws and CoI policies are now active.
  ```

3. Proceding to elect initial directors and settle terms of office.

  ```
   Moritz loses connection to the call
  ```
4. Vote on initial directors (Deyan, Frederic and Moritz) to have their term end on 12.31.2015: 2 votes "yes", 0 votes "no".
  ```
   Proposal is accepted. 
  ```

  ```
   Moritz returns to the call
  ```
5. Vote on electing Michael and Raniere as directors for a 2 year term, ending on 12.31.2016: 3 votes "yes", 0 votes "no" 
  ```
   the first 5 MathML directors have been elected: Deyan, Frederik, Michael, Moritz, Raniere
  ```
 * We need to decide on a proper election cycle, to avoid any gaps in the board.

6. Next meeting will be no later than 3 months from today: August 20, 2015. Date to be decided separately.
 * Also, we should use a different application so that we have proper sound.

7. Agenda suggestions for next meeting:
 * Appointment of the initial Board Officers: Secretary, President, Vice-president, Treasurer
 * Start dicussing bank account, paypal etc to receive donations
 * tax exempt status
 * agenda should be open until meeting is announced, will work on details in the coming months
 * proposals welcome 

8. Discussion on execution plans:
 * prioritize:
    * prepare and publish association website
    * tax exemption filing. Deyan will investigate.
    * recruiting MathML affiliates in the organization (Frederic: maybe www.igalia.com)
 * brainstorm on strategy for making the associations impressive and impactful 
 * also brainstorm on collecting funding for association-promoted activities 
   * Michael: list of tasks that can be sponsored? Frederic could organize.
 * we may need a private repository and mailing list for efficient communication

9. Round of congratulations on starting the association and moving forward. Congrats!
