---
layout: page
title: Board Meeting 2016-01-07
---

Attendees:

-   Deyan Ginev,
-   Frédéric Wang,
-   Michael Kohlhase,
-   Raniere Silva,

Session Chair: Frédéric.

Minutes Scribe: Deyan.

Venue: https://meet.jit.si/mathml

Agenda: https://github.com/MathML/website/wiki/Board-Meeting-January-2016---Announcement

## Minutes

0. We mark Moritz' absence (plane rerouted)

1. yearly task: accounting, annual activity report, changing fiscal year.
  1. Vote on https://github.com/MathML/website/pull/48
     - 4 in favour, unanimously approved
     - We also agree to keep the annual reports with the Feb 1 - Jan 31 duration,  

  2. Discuss progress on Form 1023 EZ, bank account, donations
     - Bank account selection by end of next week, Deyan will email around
     - Form submission of accounting and exemption by the end of January, by Deyan
     - Raniere will proofread


2. Budget brainstorming:
 - Background costs for MathML association - web presence, bank account, possible legal costs
 - Projects (with price tags), so that affiliates have an idea what to contribute to: 
   * Development of native MathML for browsers 
     - work on MathML in WebKit, later in Blink
     - work on Noto Math fonts
   * Funding hackathons/browser workshop meetings
 - Ask Aaron about receiving and paying money before the tax exemption is official? Until then wait for the procedures to complete.

4. Discuss progress on affiliates.
 - We need more friends
 - Should we call them "supporters"?
 - Should we use PR to encourage more signups?
 - Wait progress on adminstrative side before contacting back sponsors/partners.
 
5. Misc:
  - As possible actions: We can do PR, represent a community, and funnel money. We should work harder on all fronts.
  - Devise a broader message to attract a wider community, who is not technical, and not yet familiar with MathML.
  - Appeal to all directors: Work on growing our community, and raise awareness. Homework: bring in 5 friends
