---
layout: page
title: Board Meeting 2015-09-18
---

Attendees:

-   Bruce R. Miller,
-   Deyan Ginev,
-   Frédéric Wang,
-   Michael Kohlhase,
-   Moritz Schubotz,
-   Raniere Silva,

Session Chair: Frédéric.

Minutes Scribe: Deyan.

Venue: Mumble

## Minutes

0. We welcome Bruce as an observer to our meeting.

1. First official communications between the Association and the Math WG were a little rocky, but we are now on the same page.

  - The name of Frédéric's implementation document could be amended to be less controversial with the WG. The document aims to clarify common implementation uncertainties, and provide best practices. 

  - More importantly, we'll try to coordinate Frédéric's "MathML-in-HTML5 implementation" spec with the Math WG for ensuring higher quality and set a precedent for a good working relationship between both organizations.

  - Michael will be our official Math WG ambassador

2. "Logo follow-up items" - vote on approving the [logo alternatives](https://github.com/MathML/website/wiki/Board-Meeting-September-2015---Announcement).
  - 5 in favour, 0 against, unanimously approved all 3 points.

3. Vote for the License of Website content: Raniere proposes to release all the content under "Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License".
  - 5 in favour, 0 against, unanimously approved

4. Association Slogan. Suggestion to postpone vote and discuss further on GitHub.
  - 5 in favour, 0 against, unanimously approved to postpone to next meeting.

5. Appointing the initial Board Officers.
 
  - Questions about the concrete voting procedure were raised, as to avoid bias when electing members.
  - Agreed to proceed to a yes/no vote in public - as a practical exception
  - We will investigate alternatives for future votes
  
  - Official position suggestion for year 2015:
    * **President**: Michael Kohlhase
    * **Vice-president**: Frédéric Wang
    * **Secretary**: Deyan Ginev
    * **Treasurer**: Raniere Silva
    
  - Yes/no vote for the suggestion
    * 5 in favour, 0 against, unanimously approved.

6. Tax-exempt status progress
   * we have an EIN employer number in the state of New York
   * we will file the EZ tax-exemption form
   * need to make a decision between [B and U tax exemption class](http://www.nccsdataweb.urban.org/PubApps/nteeSearch.php?gQry=allMajor&codeType=NTEE)
   * we may need to revise the language of the bylaws if we are to file in a specific category
   * Deyan and Frédéric will finalize this offline

7. Affiliates
  - Frédéric reports 2 organizations have shown interest in becoming "MathML partners", as well as a couple of individuals have already shown enthusiasm for being "MathML friends".
  - Moritz reports several potential "MathML friends", without yet investing any real time in raising awareness. 
  - Deyan, Raniere and Michael haven't approached anyone. 
  - We have general agreement that we should finalize the infrastructure and start contacting interested parties to join. Encouraging to already see early enthusiasm from potential partners.

8. Next steps
  - Make the process for becoming a "MathML Friend", as easy as possible (mailing list, other ideas). Finalize on GitHub and vote next meeting. 
  - Recruit high profile people in the advisory board
  - Donations - we need to start researching bank accounts, and open one, in parallel to establishing tax-exempt status.
  - Determine the end of the fiscal year, ask for expert advice on the accounting technicalities.
