---
layout: page
title: Conflict of interest policy
---

<style>
ol {
  list-style-type: lower-alpha;
}
</style>

## ARTICLE I - PURPOSES

It is important for Mondial Association for Tools Handling MathML, Ltd.
directors, officers, and staff to be aware that both real and apparent
conflicts of interest or dualities of interest sometimes occur in the course of
conducting the affairs of the corporation and that the appearance of conflict
can be troublesome even if there is in fact no conflict whatsoever. Conflicts
occur because the many persons associated with the corporation should be
expected to have, and do in fact generally have multiple interests and
affiliations and various positions of responsibility within the community. In
these situations a person will sometimes owe identical duties of loyalty to two
or more corporations. The purpose of the conflict of interest policy is to
protect the corporation's tax-exempt interest when it is contemplating entering
into a transaction or arrangement that might benefit the private interest of an
officer or director of the corporation or might result in a possible excess
benefit transaction. The policy is intended to supplement but not replace any
applicable state and federal laws governing conflict of interest applicable to
nonprofit and charitable organizations.

Conflicts are undesirable because they potentially or eventually place the
interests of others ahead of the corporation's obligations to its charitable
purposes and to the public interest. Conflicts are also undesirable because
they often reflect adversely upon the person involved and upon the institutions
with which they are affiliated, regardless of the actual facts or motivations
of the parties. However, the long-range best interests of the corporation do
not require the termination of all association with persons who may have real
or apparent conflicts that are harmless to all individuals or entities involved.

Each member of the board of directors and the staff of the corporation has a
duty of loyalty to the corporation. The duty of loyalty generally requires a
director or staff member to prefer the interests of the corporation over the
director's/staff's interest or the interests of others. In addition, directors
and staff of the corporation shall avoid acts of self-dealing which may
adversely affect the tax-exempt status of the corporation or cause there to
arise any sanction or penalty by a governmental authority.

In connection with any actual or possible conflict of interest, an interested
person must disclose the existence of the financial interest and be given the
opportunity to disclose all material facts to the directors and members of
committees with governing board delegated powers considering the proposed
transaction or arrangement.

## ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS

### 2.1 Interested Person

Any director, principal officer, or member of a committee with governing board
delegated powers, who has a direct or indirect financial interest, as defined
below, is an interested person.

### 2.2 Financial Interest

A person has a financial interest if the person has, directly or indirectly,
thorough business, investment, or family:

1.  An ownership or investment interest in any entity with which the corporation
    has a transaction or arrangement,

2.  A compensation arrangement with the corporation or with any entity or
    individual with which the corporation has a transaction or arrangement, or

3.  A potential ownership or investment interest in, or compensation
    arrangement with, any entity or individual with which the corporation is
    negotiating a transaction or arrangement.

Compensation includes direct and indirect remuneration as well as gifts or
favors that are not insubstantial. A financial interest is not necessarily a
conflict of interest. Under Article III, Section 2, a person who has a
financial interest may have a conflict of interest only if the appropriate
governing board or committee decides that a conflict of interest exists.

## ARTICLE III - PROCEDURES

### 3.1 Duty to Disclose

In connection with any actual or possible conflict of interest, an interested
person must disclose the existence of the financial interest and be given the
opportunity to disclose all material facts to the directors and members of
committees with governing board delegated powers considering the proposed
transaction or arrangement

### 3.2 Determining Whether a Conflict of Interest Exists

After disclosure of the financial interest and all material facts, and after
any discussion with the interested person, he/she shall leave the governing
board or committee meeting while the determination of a conflict of interest is
discussed and voted upon. The remaining board or committee members shall decide
if a conflict of interest exists.

### 3.3 Procedures for Addressing the Conflict of Interest

1.  An interested person may make a presentation at the governing board or
    committee meeting, but after the presentation, he/she shall leave the
    meeting during the discussion of, and the vote on, the transaction or
    arrangement involving the possible conflict of interest.

2.  The chairperson of the governing board or committee shall, if appropriate,
    appoint a disinterested person or committee to investigate alternatives to
    the proposed transaction or arrangement.

3.  After exercising due diligence, the governing board or committee shall
    determine whether the corporation can obtain with reasonable efforts a more
    advantageous transaction or arrangement from a person or entity that would
    not give rise to a conflict of interest.

4.  If a more advantageous transaction or arrangement is not reasonably
    possible under circumstances not producing a conflict of interest, the
    governing board or committee shall determine by a majority vote of the
    disinterested directors whether the transaction or arrangement is in the
    corporation's best interest, for its own benefit, and whether it is fair
    and reasonable. In conformity with the above determination it shall make
    its decision as to whether to enter into the transaction or arrangement.

### 3.4 Violations of the Conflicts of Interest Policy

1.  If the governing board or committee has reasonable cause to believe a
    member has failed to disclose actual or possible conflicts of interest, it
    shall inform the member of the basis for such belief and afford the member
    an opportunity to explain the alleged failure to disclose.

2.  If, after hearing the member's response and after making further
    investigation as warranted by the circumstances, the governing board or
    committee determines the member has failed to disclose an actual or
    possible conflict of interest, it shall take appropriate disciplinary and
    corrective action.

## ARTICLE IV - RECORDS OF PROCEEDINGS

### 4.1 Minutes

The minutes of the governing board and all committees with board delegated
powers shall contain:

1.  The names of the persons who disclosed or otherwise were found to have a
    financial interest in connection with an actual or possible conflict of
    interest, the nature of the financial interest, any action taken to
    determine whether a conflict of interest was present, and the governing
    board's or committee's decision as to whether a conflict of interest in
    fact existed.

2.  The names of the persons who were present for discussions and votes
    relating to the transaction or arrangement, the content of the discussion,
    including any alternatives to the proposed transaction or arrangement, and
    a record of any votes taken in connection with the proceedings.

## ARTICLE V - COMPENSATION

1.  A voting member of the governing board who receives compensation, directly
    or indirectly, from the corporation for services is precluded from voting
    on matters pertaining to that member's compensation.

2.  A voting member of any committee whose jurisdiction includes compensation
    matters and who receives compensation, directly or indirectly, from the
    corporation for services is precluded from voting on matters pertaining to
    that member's compensation.

3.  No voting member of the governing board or any committee whose
    jurisdiction includes compensation matters and who receives compensation,
    directly or indirectly, from the corporation, either individually or
    collectively, is prohibited from providing information to any committee
    regarding compensation.

## ARTICLE VI - ANNUAL STATEMENTS

Each director, principal officer and member of a committee with governing board
delegated powers shall annually sign a statement which affirms such person:

1.  Has received a copy of the conflicts of interest policy,

2.  Has read and understands the policy,

3.  Has agreed to comply with the policy, and

4.  Understands that the corporation is charitable and in order to maintain its
    federal tax exemption it must engage primarily in activities which
    accomplish one or more of its tax-exempt purposes.

## ARTICLE VII - PERIODIC REVIEWS

To ensure the corporation operates in a manner consistent with charitable
purposes and does not engage in activities that could jeopardize its tax-exempt
status, periodic reviews shall be conducted. The periodic reviews shall, at a
minimum, include the following subjects:

1.  Whether compensation arrangements and benefits are reasonable, based on
    competent survey information and the result of arm's length bargaining.

2.  Whether partnerships, joint ventures, and arrangements with management
    corporations conform to the corporation's written policies, are properly
    recorded, reflect reasonable investment or payments for goods and services,
    further charitable purposes and do not result in inurnment, impermissible
    private benefit or in an excess benefit transaction.

## ARTICLE VIII - USE OF OUTSIDE EXPERTS

When conducting the periodic reviews as provided for in Article VII, the
corporation may, but need not, use outside advisors. If outside experts are
used, their use shall not relieve the governing board of its responsibility for
ensuring periodic reviews are conducted.
